# HolodecksPrivacyAndAuth
Privacy and authentication for private content in Holodeck displays - class project for CSCI 599

## Introduction 
We envision Holodecks as interactive, immersive 3D display drones that materialize virtual and real objects. As an interface, these could display content to an individual that they wish to be private. For example, it could display an individual’s private medical records, a banking application, or a private interaction with another remote person. When displaying such content, a holodeck must ensure that privacy is maintained. Furthermore, since they physically materialize objects that can make contact with the user these objects may have the capabilities to harm a user. The user’s safety is very important when interacting with the display.

We have not considered such requirements in the current conceptualization of a holodeck. Safety, Authentication, Privacy have been explored in Augmented Reality (AR) or Virtual Reality (VR) [1, 2, 3, 4, 5], where a single user’s view is wholly or partially modified. Holodecks pose a new challenge as they materialize a 3-dimensional object in space. In this project, we wish to understand and describe safety, privacy and authentication requirements to protect an individual when interacting with a holodeck.

## Objective
This project aims to frame safety, privacy and authentication strategies for safely displaying private content using holodecks. These include authentication strategies for an individual to access a holodeck displaying private content, a privacy model to hide private content from unauthorized individuals, and a safety model to avoid causing any harm to the user. The project would provide guidelines for developing holodeck applications, as well as newer immersive AR/VR applications, where an individual and their privacy must be protected.

Holodecks pose a challenge to safety and privacy as they materialize a 3-dimensional object in space such that multiple individuals can see it without any accessories. In this case, safety, authentication and privacy strategies should account for other individuals' presence when displaying private content. Strategies should consider multi-user remote collaborative interactions, where holodecks project individuals and their surroundings into a shared space. Strategies can also use Flying Light Specks (FLSs) and workspace peripherals to implement novel authentication methods. Furthermore, sharing private content can be performed in the scope of a single holodeck with other individuals or with multiple holodeck displays at different locations.
